Add appendix with use case descriptions (#328)
pmix/pmix-standard: App_Use_Cases.tex

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

> % Chapter: Use Cases

Author: Chapter -> Appendix (both in the comment and in the commit title)

\begingroup
\begin{figure*}
  \begin{center}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth,height=\textheight,keepaspectratio]{figs/direct-launch}
  \end{center}
  \caption{Direct Launch}
  \label{fig:direct_launch}
\end{figure*}
\endgroup

\littleheader{Related Interfaces}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_tool_init}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_tool_init}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Register_event_handler}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Register_event_handler}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Query_info}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Query_info}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Spawn}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Spawn}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Get}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Get}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Notify_event}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Notify_event}

\littleheader{Related Attributes}

\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_QUERY_SPAWN_SUPPORT}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_QUERY_DEBUG_SUPPORT}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_DEBUG_STOP_IN_INIT}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_FWD_STDOUT}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_FWD_STDERR}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_NOTIFY_COMPLETION}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_SETUP_APP_ENVARS}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_DEBUGGER_DAEMONS}

> \pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_DEBUG_JOB}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_DEBUG_TARGET}
```

\begingroup
\begin{figure*}
  \begin{center}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth,height=\textheight,keepaspectratio]{figs/indirect-launch}
  \end{center}
  \caption{Indirect Launch}
  \label{fig:indirect_launch}
\end{figure*}
\endgroup

\littleheader{Related Interfaces}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_tool_init}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_tool_init}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Register_event_handler}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Register_event_handler}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Spawn}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Spawn}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Notify_event}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Notify_event}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_tool_attach_to_server}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_tool_attach_to_server}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Query_info}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Query_info}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Get}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Get}

\littleheader{Related Attributes}

\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_SPAWN_TOOL}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_FWD_STDOUT}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_FWD_STDERR}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_SETUP_APP_ENVARS}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_DEBUG_STOP_IN_INIT}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_QUERY_PROC_TABLE}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_DEBUGGER_DAEMONS}

> \pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_DEBUG_JOB}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_DEBUG_TARGET}
```

\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_FWD_STDOUT}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_FWD_STDERR}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_NOTIFY_COMPLETION}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_SETUP_APP_ENVARS}

> \pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_DEBUG_JOB}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_DEBUG_TARGET}
```

An example of this use-case may look like the following: \code{mpiexec -n32~./myApp \&\& dbgr attach \$!}.

\begingroup
\begin{figure*}
  \begin{center}
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth,height=\textheight,keepaspectratio]{figs/process-acquisition}
  \end{center}
  \caption{Attaching to a Running Job}
  \label{fig:proc_acq}
\end{figure*}
\endgroup

{\large \refapi{PMIx_tool_init}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_tool_init}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Register_event_handler}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Register_event_handler}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Query_info}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Query_info}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Spawn}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Spawn}

\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_QUERY_PROC_TABLE}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_DEBUGGER_DAEMONS}

> \pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_DEBUG_JOB}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_DEBUG_TARGET}
```

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
% Appendix: Use Cases
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\chapter{Use-Cases}
\label{app:use-cases}

> The \ac{PMIx} standard provides many generic interfaces that can be composed into higher-level use cases in a variety of ways.  While the specific interfaces and attributes are standardized, the use cases themselves are not (and should not) be standardized.  Common use cases are included here as examples of how PMIx's generic interfaces \texttt{might} be composed together for a higher-level purpose. The use cases are intended for both \ac{PMIx} interface users and library implementors.  Wherby a better understanding of the general usage model within the community can help users picking up PMIx for the first and help implementors optimize their implementation for the common cases.

Reviewer 2: Wherby -> Whereby

Reviewer 2: Also, instead if \texttt for "might" perhaps italics?

Each use case is structured to provide background information about the high-level use case as well as specific details about how the PMIx interfaces are used within the use case.  Some use cases even provide code snippets.  These code snippets are apart of larger code examples located within the standard's source code repository, and each complete code example is fully compilable and runnable. The related interfaces and attributes collected at the bottom of each use case are mainly for conveinence and link to the full standardized definitions.

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\section {Business Card Exchange for Process-to-Process Wire-up}
\label{app:uc-business-card-exchange}

\subsection{Use Case Summary}

> Multi-process communication libraries, such as MPI, need to establish communication channels between a set of those processes. Each process needs to share connectivity information (a.k.a. Business Cards) with all other processes before communication channels can be established. This connectivity information may take the form of one or more unique strings that allow a different process to establish a communication channel with the originator. The runtime environment must provide a mechanism for the efficient exchange of this connectivity information. Additional information about the current state of the job (e.g., number of processes globally and locally) and of how the process was started (e.g., process binding) are also helpful.

Reviewer 3: **In this scenario,** each process needs to share connectivity info... with all other... 
(in the on-demand scenario, and even in the sparse scenario this is not required to be with all other)

Some business card information is meant for remote processes (e.g., TCP or InfiniBand addresses) while others are meant only for local processes (e.g., shared memory information). As such a \code{scope} should be associated with the \refapi{PMIx_Put} operation to differentiate this intention.

The \refapi{PMIx_Put} operations may be cached local to the process. Once all \refapi{PMIx_Put} operations have been called each process should call \refapi{PMIx_Commit} to push those values to the local PMIx server. Note that in a multi-library configuration each library may \refapi{PMIx_Put} then \refapi{PMIx_Commit} values - so there may be multiple \refapi{PMIx_Commit} calls before a Business Card Exchange is activated.

> After calling \refapi{PMIx_Commit} a process can activate the Business Card Exchange collective operation by calling \refapi{PMIx_Fence}. The \refapi{PMIx_Fence} operation is collective over the set of processes specified in the argument set. That allows for the collective to span a subset of a namespace or multiple namespaces. After the completion of the \refapi{PMIx_Fence} operation, the data \refapi{PMIx_Put} by other processes is available to the local process through a call to \refapi{PMIx_Get} which returns the key/value pairs necessary to establish the connection(s) with the other processes.

Reviewer 2: "the data \refapi{PMIx_Put} by other processes is available" suggest changing this such that "PMIx_Put" is not used as a verb, e.g. the data made available by other processes via a call to PMIx_Put

\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_NODE_LIST}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_NUM_NODES}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_NODEID}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_JOB_SIZE}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_PROC_MAP}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_LOCAL_PEERS}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_LOCAL_SIZE}

For each process this information is also useful (note that any one process may want to access this list of information about any other process in the system):

\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_RANK}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_LOCAL_RANK}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_GLOBAL_RANK}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_LOCALITY_STRING}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_HOSTNAME}

There are other keys that are helpful to have before a synchronization point. This is not meant to be a comprehensive list.

\section{Debugging}
\label{app:uc-debugging}

This use case distills out the features/extensions requested in the RFCs that are related to debugging. We have identified parts of PR23 (Co-located process launch for debuggers), RFC0010 (MPIR-like query), RFC0002 (event pub/sub), and RFC0022 (Environmental Parameter Directives for Applications and Launchers) under this category.

\subsection{Terminology}

\subsubsection{Tools vs Debuggers}

> A \texttt{tool} is a process designed to monitor, record, analyze, or control the execution of another process.  Typically used for the purposes of profiling and debugging. A \texttt{first-party tool} runs within the address space of the application process while a \texttt{third-party tool} run within its own process.  A \texttt{debugger} is a third-party tool that inspects and controls an application process's execution using system-level debug APIs (e.g., \code{ptrace}).

Reviewer 2: texttt -> textit?  for "tool"

> A \texttt{tool} is a process designed to monitor, record, analyze, or control the execution of another process.  Typically used for the purposes of profiling and debugging. A \texttt{first-party tool} runs within the address space of the application process while a \texttt{third-party tool} run within its own process.  A \texttt{debugger} is a third-party tool that inspects and controls an application process's execution using system-level debug APIs (e.g., \code{ptrace}).

Author: Would you be ok with `\textit`?  I'm not a latex guru so I'm not sure of the difference.  I just saw @kathrynmohror 's suggestion for `\textit` above.  Happy to do either.

> A \texttt{tool} is a process designed to monitor, record, analyze, or control the execution of another process.  Typically used for the purposes of profiling and debugging. A \texttt{first-party tool} runs within the address space of the application process while a \texttt{third-party tool} run within its own process.  A \texttt{debugger} is a third-party tool that inspects and controls an application process's execution using system-level debug APIs (e.g., \code{ptrace}).

Author: @jjhursey noted that the standard is inconsistent in its use of `\textit` vs `\emph`.  He took an editorial note to follow up on making the standard as a whole more consistent in that usage.

> A \texttt{tool} is a process designed to monitor, record, analyze, or control the execution of another process.  Typically used for the purposes of profiling and debugging. A \texttt{first-party tool} runs within the address space of the application process while a \texttt{third-party tool} run within its own process.  A \texttt{debugger} is a third-party tool that inspects and controls an application process's execution using system-level debug APIs (e.g., \code{ptrace}).

Author: Cross ref #336. Thanks @jjhursey!

\subsubsection{Parallel Launching Methods}
A \texttt{starter} program is a program responsible for launching a parallel runtime, such as \ac{MPI}.  \ac{PMIx} supports two primary methods for launching parallel applications under tools and debuggers: indirect and direct. In the indirect launching method, the tool is attached to the starter.  In the direct launching method, the tool takes the place of the starter.  

> \ac{PMIx} also supports attaching to already running programs via the \texttt{Process Acquisition} interfaces.

Reviewer 2: texttt->textit in two places

\littleheader{Related Interfaces}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Spawn}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Spawn}

\littleheader{Related Structs}

\refstruct{pmix_envar_t}

\littleheader{Related Attributes}

\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_SET_ENVAR}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_ADD_ENVAR}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_UNSET_ENVAR}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_PREPEND_ENVAR}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_APPEND_ENVAR}

Resource managers and launchers must scan for relevant directives, modifying environmental parameters as directed. Directives are to be processed in the order in which they were given, starting with job-level directives (applied to each app) followed by app-level directives.

\section{Hybrid Programming Models}
\label{app:uc-hybrid-programming-models}

\subsection{Use Case Summary}

> Hybrid applications (i.e., applications that utilize more than one lprogramming model, such as an MPI application that also uses OpenMP or PGAS) are growing in popularity, especially as chips with increasingly large numbers of cores and processors proliferate. Unfortunately, the various models currently operate under the assumption that they alone control execution. This leads to conflicts in hybrid applications. Deadlock of parallel applications can occur when one model prevents the other from making progress due to lack of coordination between the multiple programming models~\cite{2016:Hamidouche}.  Sub-optimal performance can also occur due to uncoordinated division of hardware resources between the programming models~\cite{2018:Vallee,ompix-moc}. This use-case offers potential solutions to the problem by providing a pathway for programming models to coordinate their actions.

Author: ```suggestion
Hybrid applications (i.e., applications that utilize more than one programming model, such as an MPI application that also uses OpenMP or PGAS) are growing in popularity, especially as chips with increasingly large numbers of cores and processors proliferate. Unfortunately, the various models currently operate under the assumption that they alone control execution. This leads to conflicts in hybrid applications. Deadlock of parallel applications can occur when one model prevents the other from making progress due to lack of coordination between the multiple programming models~\cite{2016:Hamidouche}.  Sub-optimal performance can also occur due to uncoordinated division of hardware resources between the programming models~\cite{2018:Vallee,ompix-moc}. This use-case offers potential solutions to the problem by providing a pathway for programming models to coordinate their actions.
```

> Hybrid applications (i.e., applications that utilize more than one lprogramming model, such as an MPI application that also uses OpenMP or PGAS) are growing in popularity, especially as chips with increasingly large numbers of cores and processors proliferate. Unfortunately, the various models currently operate under the assumption that they alone control execution. This leads to conflicts in hybrid applications. Deadlock of parallel applications can occur when one model prevents the other from making progress due to lack of coordination between the multiple programming models~\cite{2016:Hamidouche}.  Sub-optimal performance can also occur due to uncoordinated division of hardware resources between the programming models~\cite{2018:Vallee,ompix-moc}. This use-case offers potential solutions to the problem by providing a pathway for programming models to coordinate their actions.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Hybrid applications (i.e., applications that utilize more than one programming model or system, such as an MPI application that also uses OpenMP or UPC) are growing in popularity, especially as processors with increasingly large numbers of cores and/or hardware threads proliferate. Unfortunately, the various corresponding runtime systems currently operate under the assumption that they alone control execution. This leads to conflicts in hybrid applications. Deadlock of parallel applications can occur when one runtime system prevents the other from making progress due to lack of coordination between them~\cite{2016:Hamidouche}.  Sub-optimal performance can also occur due to uncoordinated division of hardware resources between the runtime systems implementing the different programming models or systems~\cite{2018:Vallee,ompix-moc}. This use-case offers potential solutions to this problem by providing a pathway for parallel runtime systems to coordinate their actions.
```

\subsection{Use Case Details}

\subsubsection{Identifying Active Programming Models}

> The current state-of-the-practice for programming models to detect one another is via set environment variables.  For example, OpenMP looks for environment variables to indicate that MPI is active.  Unfortunately, this technique is not completely reliable as environment variables change over time and with new software versions.  Also, the fact that an environment variable is present doesn't guarantee that a particular programming is in active use since Resource Managers routinely set environment variables "just in case" the application needs them. PMIx provides a reliable mechanism by which each library can determine that another library is in operation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The current state-of-the-practice for concurrently used runtime sytems used in a single application  to detect one another is via set environment variables.  For example, some OpenMP implementations look for environment variables to indicate that an MPI library is active.  Unfortunately, this technique is not completely reliable as environment variables change over time and with new software versions, and as detection could be implementation specifc.  Also, the fact that an environment variable is present doesn't guarantee that a runtime system is in active use since Resource Managers routinely set environment variables "just in case" the application needs them. PMIx provides a reliable mechanism by which each library can determine that another runtime library is in operation.
```

> When initializing PMIx, programming models can register themselves, including their name, version, and threading model.  This information is then cached locally and can then be read asynchronously by other programming models using PMIx's Event Notification system (see next section for more details).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When initializing PMIx, runtime libraries implementing a parallel programming model or system can register themselves, including their name, the library version, the version of the API they implement and the threading model.  This information is then cached locally and can then be read asynchronously by other runtime system using PMIx's Event Notification system (see next section for more details).
```

> This initialization mechanism also allows libraries to share knowledge of each other's resources and intended resource utilization. For example, if OpenMP knows which hardware threads that MPI is using it could potentially avoid processor and cache contention.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This initialization mechanism also allows runtime libraries to share knowledge of each other's resources and intended resource utilization. For example, if an OpenMP implementation knows which hardware threads an MPI library is using, it could potentially avoid core and cache contention.
```

\littleheader{Code Example}

\pmixCodeImportC[]{sources/_autogen_/hybrid-prog-model.c_declare_model}

\littleheader{Related Interfaces}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Init}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Init}

\littleheader{Related Attributes}

\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_PROGRAMMING_MODEL}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_MODEL_LIBRARY_NAME}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_MODEL_LIBRARY_VERSION}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_THREADING_MODEL}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_MODEL_NUM_THREADS}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_MODEL_NUM_CPUS}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_MODEL_CPU_TYPE}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_MODEL_PHASE_NAME}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_MODEL_PHASE_TYPE}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_MODEL_AFFINITY_POLICY}

\subsubsection{Coordinating at Runtime}

The PMIx Event Notification system provides a mechanism by which the resource manager can communicate system events to applications, thus providing applications with an opportunity to generate an appropriate response. Hybrid applications can leverage these events for cross-library coordination.

> Programming models can access the information provided by other programming models during their initialization using the event notification system.  In this case, programming models should register a callback for the \refconst{PMIX_MODEL_DECLARED} event.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Runtime libraries can access the information provided by other runtime libraries during their initialization using the event notification system.  In this case, runtime libraries should register a callback for the \refconst{PMIX_MODEL_DECLARED} event.
```

> Programming models can also use the PMIx event notification system to communicate dynamic information, such as entering a new application phase (\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_MODEL_PHASE_NAME}) or a change in resources used (\refconst{PMIX_MODEL_RESOURCES}).  This dynamic information can be broadcast to other programming models using the \refapi{PMIx_Notify_event} function.  Other programming models can register callback functions to run when these events occur (i.e., callback functions) using \refapi{PMIx_Register_event_handler}.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Runtime libraries can also use the PMIx event notification system to communicate dynamic information, such as entering a new application phase (\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_MODEL_PHASE_NAME}) or a change in resources used (\refconst{PMIX_MODEL_RESOURCES}).  This dynamic information can be broadcast to other runtime libraries using the \refapi{PMIx_Notify_event} function.  Other runtime libraries can register callback functions to run when these events occur (i.e., callback functions) using \refapi{PMIx_Register_event_handler}.
```

> Programming models can also use the PMIx event notification system to communicate dynamic information, such as entering a new application phase (\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_MODEL_PHASE_NAME}) or a change in resources used (\refconst{PMIX_MODEL_RESOURCES}).  This dynamic information can be broadcast to other programming models using the \refapi{PMIx_Notify_event} function.  Other programming models can register callback functions to run when these events occur (i.e., callback functions) using \refapi{PMIx_Register_event_handler}.

Reviewer 4: Runtime libraries typically cannot know about application phases

Author: Good point.  I also don't think it will necessarily be runtime libraries that are doing the notification of resource changes (that's probably more the domain of resource managers).  What are your thoughts on:

```suggestion
Applications, runtime libraries, and resource managers can also use the PMIx event notification system to communicate dynamic information, such as entering a new application phase (\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_MODEL_PHASE_NAME}) or a change in resources used (\refconst{PMIX_MODEL_RESOURCES}). This dynamic information can be broadcast using the \refapi{PMIx_Notify_event} function.  Runtime libraries can register callback functions to run when these events occur using \refapi{PMIx_Register_event_handler}.
```

\littleheader{Code Example}

> Registering a callback to run when another programming model initializes:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Registering a callback to run when another runtime library initializes:
```

\pmixCodeImportC[]{sources/_autogen_/hybrid-prog-model.c_declare_model_cb}

Notifying an event:
\pmixCodeImportC[]{sources/_autogen_/hybrid-prog-model.c_notify_event}

\littleheader{Related Interfaces and Constants}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Notify_event}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Notify_event}

\refconst{PMIX_MODEL_DECLARED} \\
\refconst{PMIX_MODEL_RESOURCES} \\
\refconst{PMIX_OPENMP_PARALLEL_ENTERED} \\
\refconst{PMIX_OPENMP_PARALLEL_EXITED} \\

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Register_event_handler}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Register_event_handler}

{\large \refapi{pmix_event_notification_cbfunc_fn_t}}
\pasteSignature{pmix_event_notification_cbfunc_fn_t}

\refconst{PMIX_EVENT_ACTION_COMPLETE}

\subsubsection{Coordinating at Runtime with Multiple Event Handlers}

> Coordinating with a threading library such as OpenMP creates the need for separate event handlers for threads of the same process.  For example in an MPI+OpenMP hybrid application, the MPI thread and the main OpenMP thread may both want to be notified anytime an OpenMP worker thread enters a parallel region.  This requiring support for multiple threads to potentially register different event handlers against the same status code.

Reviewer 3: `This requires support` from `this requiring`

> Coordinating with a threading library such as OpenMP creates the need for separate event handlers for threads of the same process.  For example in an MPI+OpenMP hybrid application, the MPI thread and the main OpenMP thread may both want to be notified anytime an OpenMP worker thread enters a parallel region.  This requiring support for multiple threads to potentially register different event handlers against the same status code.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Coordinating with a threading library such as an OpenMP runtime library creates the need for separate event handlers for threads of the same process.  For example in an MPI+OpenMP hybrid application, the MPI main thread and the OpenMP primary thread may both want to be notified anytime an OpenMP thread starts executing in a parallel region.  This requiring support for multiple threads to potentially register different event handlers against the same status code.
```

\begin{itemize}
\item \texttt{array[0]}: the event handler name provided at registration (may be an empty field if a string name was not given) will be in the key, with the pmix_status_t value returned by the handler
\item \texttt{array[*]}: the array of results returned by the handler, if any.
\end{itemize}

The current PMIx standard does not actually specify a default ordering for event handlers as they are being registered. However, it does include an inherent ordering for invocation. Specifically, PMIx stipulates that handlers be called in the following categorical order:

\begin{itemize}
\item single status event handlers - i.e., handlers that were registered against a single specific status.
\item multi status event handlers - those registered against more than one specific status
\item default event handlers - those registered against no specific status
\end{itemize}

\littleheader{Code Example}

> From the OpenMP master thread:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
From the OpenMP primary thread:
```

\pmixCodeImportC[]{sources/_autogen_/hybrid-prog-model.c_omp_thread}

> From the MPI thread:

Reviewer 4: What is meant with the MPI thread? MPI only knows about processes, unless the main thread is meant, which refers to the thread that called MPI_Init_thread
```suggestion
From the MPI process:
```

> From the MPI thread:

Reviewer 4: MPI only knows about MPI processes
```suggestion
From the MPI process:
```

\littleheader{Related Interfaces}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Put}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Put}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Get}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Get}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Commit}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Commit}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Fence}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Fence}

{\large \refapi{PMIx_Init}}
\pasteSignature{PMIx_Init}

\littleheader{Related Keys}

The following job level information is useful to have before establishing Business Card information:

\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_NODE_LIST}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_NUM_NODES}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_NODEID}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_JOB_SIZE}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_PROC_MAP}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_LOCAL_PEERS}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_LOCAL_SIZE}

For each process this information is also useful (note that any one process may want to access this list of information about any other process in the system):

\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_RANK}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_LOCAL_RANK}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_GLOBAL_RANK}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_LOCALITY_STRING}
\pasteAttributeItem{PMIX_HOSTNAME}

There are other keys that are helpful to have before a synchronization point, this is not meant to be a comprehensive list.

> \section{Hybrid Programming Models}

Author: This commit is borked.  Rebase with the proper business card exchange commit and drop the hybrid programming model content.

There are other keys that are helpful to have before a synchronization point, this is not meant to be a comprehensive list.

\section{Hybrid Programming Models}
\label{app:uc-hybrid-programming-models}
\section{Debugging}
\label{app:uc-debugging}

\subsection{Use Case Summary}
This use case distills out the features/extensions requested in the RFCs that are related to debugging. We have identified parts of PR23 (Co-located process launch for debuggers), RFC0010 (MPIR-like query), RFC0002 (event pub/sub), and RFC0022 (Environmental Parameter Directives for Applications and Launchers) under this category.

> Hybrid applications (i.e., applications that utilize more than one lprogramming model, such as an MPI application that also uses OpenMP or PGAS) are growing in popularity, especially as chips with increasingly large numbers of cores and processors proliferate. Unfortunately, the various models currently operate under the assumption that they alone control execution. This leads to conflicts in hybrid applications. Deadlock of parallel applications can occur when one model prevents the other from making progress due to lack of coordination between the multiple programming models~\cite{2016:Hamidouche}.  Sub-optimal performance can also occur due to uncoordinated division of hardware resources between the programming models~\cite{2018:Vallee,ompix-moc}. This use-case offers potential solutions to the problem by providing a pathway for programming models to coordinate their actions.

Author: This commit is also borked.  Don't delete the intro.

\subsection{Use Case Summary}

Hybrid applications (i.e., applications that utilize more than one programming model or system, such as an application using MPI that also uses OpenMP or UPS) are growing in popularity, especially as processors with increasingly large numbers of cores and/or hardware threads proliferate. Unfortunately, the various corresponding runtime systems currently operate under the assumption that they alone control execution. This leads to conflicts in hybrid applications. Deadlock of parallel applications can occur when one runtime system prevents the other from making progress due to lack of coordination between them~\cite{2016:Hamidouche}. Sub-optimal performance can also occur due to uncoordinated division of hardware resources between the runtime systems implementing the different programming models or systems~\cite{ompix-moc,2018:Vallee}. This use-case offers potential solutions to this
problem by providing a pathway for parallel runtime systems to coordinate their actions.

\subsection{Use Case Details}

> \subsubsection{Identifying Active Programming Models}

Author: Programming Models -> Runtime Systems
